TUSCALOOSA, Ala. – Alabama Athletics has formally proposed moving forward with phase II of The Crimson Standard Initiative, which includes a new competition arena for basketball and gymnastics as well as a practice facility for the golf programs. These plans are pending Stage I approval from the University of Alabama System Board of Trustees on Friday. The Board's Physical Properties Committee today recommended Stage I approval.

The Crimson Standard, unveiled in 2018, is Alabama Athletics' 10-year, $600 million capital initiative created to comprehensively elevate the student-athlete experience, recruiting efforts and the overall game-day experience for all Crimson Tide fans. To date, over $470 million has been raised for The Crimson Standard Initiative.

The new arena is projected to seat over 10,000 and designed to bring fans closer to the action on the court. Arena features would include student seating around the majority of the lower bowl in addition to new premium options in club, loge, courtside and lower-level preferred seating.

Coleman Coliseum will continue to serve as the day-to-day practice and preparation site for the programs and will also continue to house the multiple departments currently located within the building.

The golf practice facility would be a first-of-its-kind, featuring a brand new nine-hole golf course, driving range, short game practice area and a golf house. The 18,000-square foot golf house would include a Hall of Fame lobby, golf heritage display and mirrored wings with dedicated space for both golf teams, housing coaches' offices, bag storage and club fitting rooms, a team lounge and locker room, stretch room, putting studio and three indoor hitting bays.

North of the clubhouse, the practice range would feature multiple regulation greens, while the short game practice area would be located west of the club house. The nine-hole golf course, east of the golf house, would offer multiple routing options for on-course practice.

Phase I of The Crimson Standard, completed prior to the 2020-21 season, included several enhancements to Bryant-Denny Stadium with the renovation and expansion of multiple seating areas, a relocated press box, improvements to all team areas and renovated recruiting areas. In addition, renovations were made to the lobby, football locker room and medical treatment area at the Mal M. Moore Athletic Facility, and the Sports Science Center was added. Rhoads Stadium also received several upgrades including enhancements to the team areas as well as improved amenities and concessions for fans.

For more information on The Crimson Standard, visit CrimsonTideFoundation.org.

All projects are subject to approval of the University of Alabama System Board of Trustees, presidential approval and fundraising success.
